README.md, before:

# Parallel BFS

Simple framework to test and benchmark C++ parallelization techniques applied to Best First Search problems.
The end goal is to port the results to [BFGP++](https://github.com/jsego/bfgp-pp).

## Dependencies

This project tests different parallelization techniques available with the latest C++ standards. Unfortunately, the
level of support for these features is not the same in all compilers. Furthermore, some features are not yet
standardized and only available through external libraries. The following is a list of the main dependencies of
the project:

- **C++20**: The project takes advantage of new concurrency features available with C++20, so you
  will need a compiler that has good support for C++20. The project has been tested to work with `gcc 13.2`, but
  `clang 17.0.1` does not work because it does not support the `std::jthread` class. You can check support for other
  compilers in [cppreference.com](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/compiler_support).


- **Intel OneTBB**: The parallel algorithms from C++17 are not yet widely supported by compilers. In particular, the
  `std::execution::par` policy is not yet implemented in `gcc` and `clang` (it defaults to a sequential policy).
  To use parallel algorithms with `gcc` and `clang`, you must use the `Intel OneTBB` library. For OSX you can install
  it using [macports](https://ports.macports.org/port/onetbb/). For other platforms check the
  [official documentation](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/onetbb/get-started-guide/2021-6/install-onetbb-on-linux-os.html)
  for detailed instructions. Ensure you install the `devel` version of the package, as it contains the headers and
  the static libraries needed to compile the project. Also, don't forget to [set the environment variables](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/onetbb/get-started-guide/2021-6/overview.html#BEFORE-YOU-BEGIN)
  after installing oneTBB (this last step is not needed if you have used macports).

  > If you want to always have the environment variables set, you can add the following lines to your `.bash_profile`,
  > `.zprofile`, or `.zshenv` file (assuming that you have installed `Intel OneTBB` in the default location in Linux):
  > ```bash
  > source /opt/intel/oneapi/tbb/latest/env/vars.sh
  > ```


- **_[Optional]_ Google Sanitizers**: The project comes with some built-in tests to check for memory errors, undefined
  behaviour errors and data races. Both `clang` and `gcc` support `x86_64` processors, but `gcc` does not currently
  support Google Sanitizers for `arm64-apple-darwin` processors (see
  [this discussion](https://github.com/orgs/Homebrew/discussions/3384) for more information).

  > **NOTE**: In some platforms you may need to install the `libasan`, `libtsan` and `libubsan` libraries separately.
  > In a RedHat-based distribution, you can do so with:
  > ```bash
  > sudo dnf install libasan libtsan libubsan
  > ```

  > **NOTE 2**: Apple Clang (the compiler that comes with XCode by default in macOS) does not support memory leak
  > detection with the `AddressSanitizer`, so I recommend installing another compiler separately. Alternatively, you can
  > also disable leak detection by changing `ASAN_OPTIONS=detect_leaks` to `0`.
  
  

## Usage

### Compiling the project

The easiest way to compile the project is using CMake. You can install `cmake` using a package manager (like `apt` in
Ubuntu and [macports](https://www.macports.org/) or [homebrew](https://brew.sh/) in macOS). You can also install it
directly from the [official site](https://cmake.org/). If you have never used `cmake`, you can check the official
[getting started tutorial](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/book/mastering-cmake/chapter/Getting%20Started.html).

The first time that you open the project you will need to **configure** it. To do so you only need to follow these steps
in a terminal:

1. In the root directory of the project, create a folder where all your binaries and build files will be placed.
Then change directory to this folder.

    ```bash
    mkdir cmake-build
    cd cmake-build
    ```
2. Then use `cmake` to configure the project. Most of the configuration is already specified in the `CmakeLists.txt` file
at the root of the project, but you can override some settings, like which *compiler* to use or the *build type*.
To use the default values and compile in `Release` mode, simply execute the following command:

    ```bash
    cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
    ```

    >    If you want to specify which compiler to use, you can use the `CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER` flag. In particular, I
   > recommend to use `gcc` instead of `clang` because it has better support for C++20 and C++23 features. This is usually
   > the default for Linux systems, but in macOS you may need to install `gcc` with `macports` or `homebrew`. For example,
   > if you have installed `GCC 13` with `macports` you can use the following command to configure the project:
   >    ```bash
   >    cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=/opt/local/bin/g++-mp-13
   >    ```
   > For other compilers or platforms simply change the compiler path.

3. At this point, you only need to compile the project. To do so, simply execute the following command:

    ```bash
    cmake --build .
    ```

    If you have changed the configuration of the project, you will need to reconfigure it again (step 2).

### Running the program

When compiling with `cmake`, the executable will be placed inside the build folder that you created in the first step.
You can simply execute it as follows:

```bash
./main.out "problems" --num-problems 1 --config "../config/simple_tree.yaml"
```

### Testing for bugs using Google Sanitizers

> **NOTE**: Currently, the tests are broken because intel oneTBB produces data races according to the ThreadSanitizer.
> This is a known issue, and it is being tracked in the [Intel OneTBB GitHub repository](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneTBB/issues/1290).

This project comes with some built-in tests to check for memory errors, undefined behaviour errors and data races. To
check if the program has any bugs, you can simply run the following command:

```bash
ctest --output-on-failure
```

For more information on how sanitizers work, you can check the [Google documentation](https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki),
the [`clang` documentation](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/UsersManual.html#controlling-code-generation) or the
[`gcc` documentation](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Instrumentation-Options.html#index-fsanitize_003daddress).

Commit message:

Add comment about how to replicate the results of my thesis.

README.md, after:

# Parallel BFS

Simple framework to test and benchmark C++ parallelization techniques applied to Best First Search problems.
The end goal is to port the results to [BFGP++](https://github.com/jsego/bfgp-pp).

## Dependencies

This project tests different parallelization techniques available with the latest C++ standards. Unfortunately, the
level of support for these features is not the same in all compilers. Furthermore, some features are not yet
standardized and only available through external libraries. The following is a list of the main dependencies of
the project:

- **C++20**: The project takes advantage of new concurrency features available with C++20, so you
  will need a compiler that has good support for C++20. The project has been tested to work with `gcc 13.2`, but
  `clang 17.0.1` does not work because it does not support the `std::jthread` class. You can check support for other
  compilers in [cppreference.com](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/compiler_support).


- **Intel OneTBB**: The parallel algorithms from C++17 are not yet widely supported by compilers. In particular, the
  `std::execution::par` policy is not yet implemented in `gcc` and `clang` (it defaults to a sequential policy).
  To use parallel algorithms with `gcc` and `clang`, you must use the `Intel OneTBB` library. For OSX you can install
  it using [macports](https://ports.macports.org/port/onetbb/). For other platforms check the
  [official documentation](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/onetbb/get-started-guide/2021-6/install-onetbb-on-linux-os.html)
  for detailed instructions. Ensure you install the `devel` version of the package, as it contains the headers and
  the static libraries needed to compile the project. Also, don't forget to [set the environment variables](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/onetbb/get-started-guide/2021-6/overview.html#BEFORE-YOU-BEGIN)
  after installing oneTBB (this last step is not needed if you have used macports).

  > If you want to always have the environment variables set, you can add the following lines to your `.bash_profile`,
  > `.zprofile`, or `.zshenv` file (assuming that you have installed `Intel OneTBB` in the default location in Linux):
  > ```bash
  > source /opt/intel/oneapi/tbb/latest/env/vars.sh
  > ```


- **_[Optional]_ Google Sanitizers**: The project comes with some built-in tests to check for memory errors, undefined
  behaviour errors and data races. Both `clang` and `gcc` support `x86_64` processors, but `gcc` does not currently
  support Google Sanitizers for `arm64-apple-darwin` processors (see
  [this discussion](https://github.com/orgs/Homebrew/discussions/3384) for more information).

  > **NOTE**: In some platforms you may need to install the `libasan`, `libtsan` and `libubsan` libraries separately.
  > In a RedHat-based distribution, you can do so with:
  > ```bash
  > sudo dnf install libasan libtsan libubsan
  > ```

  > **NOTE 2**: Apple Clang (the compiler that comes with XCode by default in macOS) does not support memory leak
  > detection with the `AddressSanitizer`, so I recommend installing another compiler separately. Alternatively, you can
  > also disable leak detection by changing `ASAN_OPTIONS=detect_leaks` to `0`.
  
  

## Usage

### Compiling the project

The easiest way to compile the project is using CMake. You can install `cmake` using a package manager (like `apt` in
Ubuntu and [macports](https://www.macports.org/) or [homebrew](https://brew.sh/) in macOS). You can also install it
directly from the [official site](https://cmake.org/). If you have never used `cmake`, you can check the official
[getting started tutorial](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/book/mastering-cmake/chapter/Getting%20Started.html).

The first time that you open the project you will need to **configure** it. To do so you only need to follow these steps
in a terminal:

1. In the root directory of the project, create a folder where all your binaries and build files will be placed.
Then change directory to this folder.

    ```bash
    mkdir cmake-build
    cd cmake-build
    ```
2. Then use `cmake` to configure the project. Most of the configuration is already specified in the `CmakeLists.txt` file
at the root of the project, but you can override some settings, like which *compiler* to use or the *build type*.
To use the default values and compile in `Release` mode, simply execute the following command:

    ```bash
    cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
    ```

    >    If you want to specify which compiler to use, you can use the `CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER` flag. In particular, I
   > recommend to use `gcc` instead of `clang` because it has better support for C++20 and C++23 features. This is usually
   > the default for Linux systems, but in macOS you may need to install `gcc` with `macports` or `homebrew`. For example,
   > if you have installed `GCC 13` with `macports` you can use the following command to configure the project:
   >    ```bash
   >    cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=/opt/local/bin/g++-mp-13
   >    ```
   > For other compilers or platforms simply change the compiler path.

3. At this point, you only need to compile the project. To do so, simply execute the following command:

    ```bash
    cmake --build .
    ```

    If you have changed the configuration of the project, you will need to reconfigure it again (step 2).

### Running the program

When compiling with `cmake`, the executable will be placed inside the build folder that you created in the first step.
You can simply execute it as follows:

```bash
./main.out "problems" --num-problems 1 --config "../config/simple_tree.yaml"
```

To replicate the results of my thesis (*Parallel Strategies for Best-First Generalized Planning*), you only need to
execute the two provided scripts (it will take several hours to complete). The first script will generate the problems
and the second script will run the experiments. You can execute the scripts as follows:

```bash
./generate_tests.sh
./run_tests.sh
```

### Testing for bugs using Google Sanitizers

> **NOTE**: Currently, the tests are broken because intel oneTBB produces data races according to the ThreadSanitizer.
> This is a known issue, and it is being tracked in the [Intel OneTBB GitHub repository](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneTBB/issues/1290).

This project comes with some built-in tests to check for memory errors, undefined behaviour errors and data races. To
check if the program has any bugs, you can simply run the following command:

```bash
ctest --output-on-failure
```

For more information on how sanitizers work, you can check the [Google documentation](https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki),
the [`clang` documentation](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/UsersManual.html#controlling-code-generation) or the
[`gcc` documentation](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Instrumentation-Options.html#index-fsanitize_003daddress).
